# Foreword by the compiler (Wyatt S Carpenter)

Hello and welcome to _Terror Island_, the comic from http://www.terrorisland.net by Ben Heaton and Lewis Powell; the book. I guess that technically makes this a graphic novel.

I made this book version of _Terror Island_ for my own personal use and enjoyment. I didn't want any money or to have to get in contact with the original authors. However, this does mean that the book is not as good as it could be. Specifically, the images are small, and therefore don't look as good as they could (Ben's annotation on Strip #317 implies there are higher-quality photos hoarded, and possibly higher-quality entire strips?). Also, I didn't try very hard on making every aspect of the book look good — actually, I did try pretty hard, but then I got tired.

The front cover I made for this book is deliberately too-low-resolution, as it is approximately the (horizontal) resolution of the images within.

I feel like the images in the book could have been upscaled with a better algorithm? I suspect calibre just uses nearest-neighbor, when instead bilinear or bicubic or lanczos is better, and that's why the images look slightly poorer than they have to. Or maybe not!

This copy of this book lacks several external images, leaving them as broken images (in html parlance). This is because the website-mirroring process is much more complex if you want to include them, especially because many of them are hotlinks to downed sites, so you'd have to scrounge around archive.org to get them. This is technically possible, and not even really that hard in the grand scheme of things, but also the lost images don't matter very much and aren't really important. Maybe a future edition could correct this oversight.

Another interesting aspect of this book is that I've included all of the about pages, etc, as front matter. This includes a page called "strips/index.html", which is apparently a table of contents of the comic (and continues the joke of the comic being logically necessary, as it is formatted as though it is the table of contents of a work of mathematical proofs). However, it seems like the authors forgot about this page eventually, so it only goes until strip 30.

If this is your first time reading Terror Island, I softly recommend skipping the notes the first time. While the notes are great, you'll be able to speed through the comic breezily the first time, and on subsequent reads you can enjoy the notes as well. This is not an imperative suggestion; if you feel like reading the notes, go ahead. (As a side note, I'm fairly certain that Ben's Notes on Strip 1, which is written as though it's retrospective, was actually written concurrently with the production of the strip, as a joke. The notes were added, as best I can tell, the day the strips went up, and not retroactively.)

The code, and other things, to make this book can be found at https://github.com/wyattscarpenter/terrorisland .

The concept of calling this "Terror Island (The Comic) (The Book)" is metrically derived from _Twitter: The Comic (The Book)_, the book collection of the comic _Twitter: The Comic_, which is adaptations of great tweets into comic strips. However, unlike the _Twitter: The Comic_, the "The Comic" in  "Terror Isand (The Comic)" is not a mark of adaptation but a disambiguator, merely there to distinguish it from all the other things out there titled "Terror Island". For example, if this were, say, a comics adaption of the **film** _Terror Island_ (1920), I would call it "Terror Island: The Comic". And then, in both cases, the "(The Book)" is in parens because that step isn't really an adaptation so much as it is just an alternative presentation in which to enjoy the exact same content. This isn't really germane to anything, because this foreword is about _Terror Island_ and not about _Twitter: The Comic_, but I want to mention that the song for the commericial for _Twitter: The Comic (The Book)_ is very good. Since the commerical is titled "Twitter The Comic (The Book) – The Trailer", https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IktnlZmK6zU, the song is called "Twitter The Comic (The Book) – The Trailer (The Song)" in my personal musical collection. I'm not sure if the song has an official name. Presumably, if it does, I've redirived exactly the same name indepentently, compelled by pure reason.

This edition contains the "title text" of each strip, which would normally appear on hover on the website, as italic text underneath the comic.

I've also enabled the calibre option to "smarten punctuation", especially noticeable in the quotes, which are now curvy instead of straight.

The physical size of this book (trim size) is almost (almost!) USA trade paperback size, 6×9 inches. However, it is actually 6.12×9 inches, because Amazon KDP charges you regular price for printing until you get to "(More than 6.12 inches (155.5 mm) in width or more than 9 inches (228.6 mm) in height)" <https://kdp.amazon.com/en_US/help/topic/G201834340>. The bigger the book the better when you're trying to display pictures and also they charge by page. I also went with standard color, because I assume the poor resolution of these images would mean the higher ink quality (?) would be wasted on these images. Which means the print cost is $1.00+0.027×page, or approximately $11 to $12 per copy. (If you bought this from me (which is unlikely tbh) you will note I am "selling" these copies at-cost.) The book was printed without bleed, because we don't actually need that. In order to get amazon to automatically deal with the margins for me (margins are mandatory, probably due to an inevitable level of manufacturing imprecision), I actually generate the file at the printable size minus the margins, and then use the online option in the previewer to "scale" to the permitted size (this does what it says and also fits you into the margins automatically, instead of having to deal with calibre's quite-involved margin options). 6.12×9 is the trim size, not the printable area size. You actually need to subtract 0.25 inches for each outside edge and 0.625 inch inside (for our page count; see <https://kdp.amazon.com/en_US/help/topic/GVBQ3CMEQW3W2VL6>. So, we use a printable area of 6.12-0.875 by 9-.50, or, that is, 5.245 by 8.5 inch. (nb: this is remarkably close to a5 paper, but is not in fact a5). (The margins without our pdf itself are still a tiny bit of wasted space in the end, but whatever.) So, that's why this pdf is a weird shape. Sorry!

If you've modified this edition somehow, you can include a description of how below this line.
